at the university.
And he believed in, you know, it's boys school and you're gonna have a dollar a week.
That's what I had my freshman year.
Do you have any recollection about what the total charge fee was for a semester when you started?
No, but it was very modest.
It was great.
I know my father, he didn't push me at the college station, but I'm sure that was
That was something to help because otherwise there'd been a fraternity and all of those things in Austin.
Tell me about a football weekend.
Well, I was, again, I was blessed.
That was the year that we went undefeated and ended up number one.
And those were great guys.
We had a lot of them in the Corps.
Kimbrough was in the Corps.
Just any number of them were in the Corps.
And Sibley.
And I don't remember all of them.
Many, many of them were in the Corps of cadets.
By way of saying it was really a fine bunch of guys.
They were great football players, but they were good guys.
Nice fellas.
Yeah, we had great weekends.
We'd have the dances each Saturday night.
Alright, was there a midnight yell practice then?
a Friday night in the stadium like there is now?
No, not in the stadium.
But we did have a bonfire.
Where was it?
It was on what is now the... Drill field?
Drill field.
And what material went into the... Well, it was a lot of crates.
The things were boxed in crates, wooden crates in those days.
And the...
The various stores in that area would begin to save them for us, and we'd start getting them together.
You know, I just don't remember.
There may have been some logs, but I just don't remember.
We didn't have any way, really, of moving around, and we didn't have the equipment.
How big were those trees there?
No, the drill field, the trees growing around the drill field.
Oh, my.
They were...
They weren't very big.
No, they weren't very big.
That's what I thought.
Alright, then it's football game day.
Describe that for me, for you as a member of the Corps.
Well, of course, freshman, you still didn't have total freedom on Saturdays.
And you sat at the very top, obviously.
I don't, you know, and I can't remember whether we, I don't think we marched in those days.
I don't think we did.
I don't think you did either.
I don't believe we did.
Did y'all stand during the game?
Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
We never sat down.
And did you, that freshman year, did you ever have a date to a game?
My freshman year, I don't think so.
I think it was my sophomore, junior, and then from then on, I'd have dates.
And of course, football weekends,
We had two court trips each year.
One year it would be Houston when we played Rice, and TCU in Fort Worth, we played TCU, and then of course Texas and Austin, and SMU in Dallas.
And each year we had two court trips, and those were the fun weekends.
Tell me about a court trip.
How'd you get there?
Well as a freshman,
In those days, we hitchhiked.
There just weren't any automobiles.
And people were so good about picking us up.
And I remember the TCU game in particular for two reasons.
First of all, a flatbed truck came along, and about, I guess, 40 or 50 of us got on.
It was so dangerous.
You know, we didn't think about it in those days.
But I'll tell you what, I got off the first time.
He stopped before the world.
I got off of that thing.
which was on the outskirts.
And from then on, I hitchhiked to get an automobile, which we did.
And they issued us our woolens for the fall, winters.
And it had to be 90 degrees in those stands.
And of course, you're in the east stand, and the sun's coming.
It was a beautiful day.
It was something else.
But it was a fabulous weekend.
And we rode the train back.
We didn't take the train up.
We didn't have enough money to take the train up.
So we hitchhiked up and we took the night train.
Got him about midnight.
And you know, during the course of the trip, you drop what they call handles.
You don't have any handles.
You do when you get together to march, obviously.
When you break up, you're friends.
I mean, you can do whatever you want to do.
You're just Aggies, all Aggies.
So on the train, I remember coming back, it was a real learning process for me, because two or three of the sophomores, we were having fun with them, and I mean, we'd just get along great.
The minute that train stopped at College Station, fishing, bare my bag.
From then on, boy, it was a different ball game, and that was part of the tradition at A&M.
Off campus, friends, no problems,
at that campus.
Now, you marched on the court trips.
Yes.
Tell me where y'all marched in those four cities.
Well, we'd go down the main street of every city.
In Houston, it was Main Street, and I forget some of the other streets.
And the people would turn out in that Aggie band.
You must remember that war was beginning to
show itself in Europe.
And we were beginning to see that in 1940, 40, currently 41, 42.
But even in 39 and 40, military was beginning to gain the notice.
And I wore my uniform, I never, we had the privilege as a junior to wear civvies off campus,
I never did it.
I was so proud of my unit in particular when I got those boots.
Well, I'd almost take a shower in those boots I was so proud of.
Can you remember who won the Thanksgiving game in 1939?
Oh, yes.
I remember one of the trick plays.
We had that hideout with old Smith and beat Texas at A&M.
So we went, we didn't
See, we didn't have a 13-point score on us that year.
It was unbelievable that several of those records still stand at the NCAA.
The next year, we were going to the Rose Bowl.
That was in Austin.
My father had a room up in the Stephen F. Austin and a suite, and all of my Houston buddies, my other buddies, we were to go up there after the game to celebrate, because we were going to win, obviously.
Well, I mean, the first...
pop Texas and takes that ball down there and it ends up being 7-0.
Now if you look at those statistics, it's unbelievable.
We marched up and down that field.
We'd get the 11-yard line and those Longhorns would, whatever it took, they kept us out of there.
And no question why we had a better team that day, but we didn't win.
They won.
And well, I don't know, maybe they did have a better team that day.
What were other, tell me about some other
student organizations, singing cadets, band, et cetera.
Tell me about some of those others.
Well, of course, the most active were your hometown.
You had hometown clubs, like the Houston Week were organized.
Dallas was organized.
What did they do?
Oh, they'd just get together.
We had mother's clubs in those days.
Mothers were very
They were sort of the catalyst, you might say, to try to keep the boys together and would have things planned when we got back home to Houston.
But you had an economics club and you had any number of engineers.
You had your engineering clubs.
Was there a singing cadet organization?
There was a singing cadet.
I think there was.
I believe there was.
And the band... Oh, the Aggieland band was, they were terrific.
In fact, Buck Wires was a member of that.
Alright, let's see.
Now, let's go to the important subject.
You arrive at A&M almost exactly at the time World War II breaks out in Europe.
Tell me how this began to affect you and your classmates.
You know, young men, that's the reason young men fight wars.
It was exciting to us.
And of course, we had a lot of military science, so that was part of our... And it was interesting because then, even then, they would begin to teach the tactics and the strategy being used by the Germans.
The Germans set the pattern in the beginning.
whether it was marched through France or in the lowlands, Netherlands and so forth, or whether it was finally when they struck Russia.
We studied that, that was quite a thing.
And in North Africa it was quite a thing.
So we studied those pretty well.
Now when the course in Pearl Harbor took place, I never forget my father and mother were there.
I had two brothers.
There were three of us at A&M at the same time, one year behind.
When I was a senior, I had a brother who was a junior, and I had a brother who was a sophomore.
All three of us finally ended up flying.
And I lost my youngest brother, B-29s over in Japan.
And my other brother was a B-29 commander in Montgomery, had his crew, and was ready to move out, and we dropped the first bomb.
Of course, they stopped everything.
And I was in the Pacific at that time.
We discussed Japan, but that really isn't what we studied.
We studied Europe.
We were very, very aware of it and really kind of looked forward to it.
I mean, we really did.
Where were you when you heard the news on the first Sunday in December 1941?
I started to tell you and I got off track.
My father and mother were here and we would go park by those trees at the parade round.
And they'd always bring something.
They'd bring us soft drinks and sandwiches and cookies and brownies and things that would come from home knowing that we didn't have quite that good in the mess hall.
And Dad always listened to the radio.
Calvin Bourne, what was his name?
HV.
Dad wouldn't miss a thing.
So he's got the radio on and I think this was a time when he usually came on.
He was.
He was talking about the day's news and so forth.
And he said, I've just been handed, hold on, hold on, I've just been handed something.
I'm gonna read it as I'm looking at it now.
Japan has attacked Pearl Harbor.
I repeat, Japan has attacked Pearl Harbor.
The details are sketchy, limited.
However, we're told that it is a disaster.
It is a very bad situation.
And my mother just, she knew why the three of us were going.
But she was very brave, very good about it.
So then the rumors, the rumors then began, they were going to start taking us immediately.
We weren't going to, here I am, what was I, a junior?
41, what?
39.
40, 41, I was a junior.
And rumors were, junior seniors will be out of here in a month.
Well, that didn't take place.
But a lot of boys would begin to leave right then.
They'd left on their own car to join the Air Corps and others.
And I asked my last year, General, who was the commanding general at Fort Hood?
It was Cam Hood, no tank destroyer school.
I'll think of it in a minute.
And Aggie, he was the commanding general and his adjutant, Woody Varner,
who was a cadet colonel while I was there, and there were just Aggies all through it.
So I put in for the Tank Destroyer School, and I took 13 of us out of the whole bunch.
And we heard rumors, you'll be a first lieutenant in six months, a captain in a year, and so forth.
Well, it didn't quite happen that way, but I ended up, that's where I was commissioned at Tank Destroyer School.
As the war began,
for the United States, what did you and your contemporaries think was, who was going to win that war?
Oh, there wasn't any question.
There wasn't any question.
The question was when.
No, there was absolutely no question, anyone's mind, that we weren't going to repel and win.
There's no question.
Describe those who spoke out in opposition to the war.
You know, that, I think the only people that I know of were in the East.
There was some senator up there.
I know that Kennedy's father was against it.
But there was nobody at A&M that... No sir, never.
Not to my knowledge, ever.
And if anyone did it, they did it behind closed doors, because I never, we never.
Right, and so the curriculum began to change in your military science classes.
The subject matter.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
You're right, yes.
What about any other changes that began... Well, Haskell, I think that there became a doubling of feeling as it relates to the importance of military.
I think all of us, until the war, you know, it was a military school and we'd probably get our commission and serve and then become a reserve officer.
After Pearl Harbor, there wasn't any question of what we were going to combat.
We were part of it.
So it was a very serious thing with us.
As you look back on it, does it seem that there was less horseplay among the students after the war got started?
Was it a more serious place?
I don't think there's any question about it, yes.
I think there was a maturation
circumstance that took place.
We all matured a little bit.
I'd say within six months after Pearl Harbor, yeah, there was just a different, we were gonna go to war.
Alright, so then you go through three years, three nine month years, or two nine month years, and tell me about that three semesters a year program.
Yeah, see,
In the fall of 1942, no, 41, let me see, 42, in the fall of, I guess it was 41, we went that semester, we went another semester in 42, and then 43, no, we went three.
See, we never stopped, let me see.
It was the fall semester, when we went in in September,
We went straight through until we graduated.
The last part, which would be, if we got out in 43, it was actually the end of 42, you might say.
So beginning of September of 41.
You went straight from moving?
Straight through, and then got our degree.
And as I stated earlier, we were the last class at A&M during that period to graduate as a class.
The class of 44, 45, 46 were
Totally different make-up style.
Were there some folks that had been at A&M when you first arrived who that you knew were in the Philippines when the Japanese... Was it General Moore?
General Moore.
Tell me about him, as you would call him.
Well, he was our commandant.
What kind of man was he?
Oh, I think he was a very fine man.
I knew him.
Uh, but I didn't know him intimately at all.
He was, the commandant is, he's quite a fella.
And uh, the 7,000 cadets, that's, and he was, he was that good, he was in Florida, he gave the command of Corregidor.
Uh, let's see, I hear what, this is about Brian Field, but that's, that's after, after you.
Yeah.
Uh, alright, let's go back to hit, you did hitchhike some.
Always.
Tell me the routine.
Where did a hitchhiker... Well, most of the time, the girls that I knew had gone to Texas, most of them, from Houston, my high school.
And many, many times, we'd go over there on a Saturday and stay the weekend.
Usually, I had friends over in fraternity houses, and they'd put me up.
Where did you...
Leaving College Station, where was the right place to go to get a ride?
Well, I went through Hearn, and then where did I go?
I had to get a map.
But sometimes you went through Caldwell and Old Dime Bob, you know, up that way.
How did you dress to get a ride?
Always uniform.
Always, never without a uniform.
And I must say this, that my senior year,
I was in Austin one or two weekends out of the month at least.
In fact, Jack Nagel, who was one of the gale weeders that was killed in the world, a great guy, a good friend, he and I, we'd go during the week.
We'd go in the afternoon, we'd get over there maybe 7 or 8 o'clock at night, we'd have a date.
We'd start hit hikes about midnight, one o'clock.
We'd get in maybe six, seven, eight o'clock the next morning.
We did it many, many times.
And never a problem?
Never a problem.
The only problem was it'd get cold in some of those spots.
Now when you went home to Houston, how'd you get back and forth?
On the train?
On the train.
Yeah.
Your dad was very, very liberal about that.
that I could come home.
And he'd always put me on that sunbeam first class, always.
I had my own seat, you know.
That was one thing that I always felt, man, I'm really in great shape here.
But as soon as I'd get to College Station, it was the melting pot.
Now, did any of your buddies have a car?
And if so, what were the rules?
We didn't have a car.
We didn't have a car in our outfit until
my sophomore year, a junior had a car and one of our sophomores, a fellow from El Paso, Chico Manuelo Lozano, and he had a car and we would ride with him.
Let's digress on that.
Tell me how you think the student body reacted to Hispanics, Asian.
How was Lozano treated, as far as you know?
Fine.
We had one of my best friends was a Jew from Palestine.
Great, great guy.
Some of the fellows were kind of hard.
They'd call him and, hey, Jew!
But we took it.
We loved him.
He knew we liked him.
It was just sort of just tough boy stuff.
But he realized that it was strictly a fun deal.
And Chico got along with him fine.
No problem.
I must say this.
There isn't any question.
And this is something I learned.
I learned that it really didn't make any difference where you came from.
who your folks were, what your standing in your high school class was.
When you hit A&M, you all got a start right there.
The gun fired that moment.
You set your own pattern, your own pace, your own goals, your own accomplishments.
Ended making us where you were from and that went from everyone.
Latin America made no difference.
Honest to goodness, it did.
I think that is true.
Fred McClure, first black student body.
Well, that came later.
No, I know it.
But he said same for him.
Hector Gutierrez from Laredo, first non-Anglo Corps commander.
Same thing.
And I tell people, you're either an Aggie or you're not.
If you're an Aggie, we don't need to ask him.
Exactly.
That's precisely correct.
There are other fine Jewish fellas.
Were there any international students that you remember in that era?
I'm certain there were.
I think we were getting Dominican Republic people then.
We had some Mexican people there.
But not anywhere near the mix that you have today.
Not at all.
Alright.
Can you generalize about
geographically and economically where the students came from in your day?
I think it was a grand mix.
Some of my friends from Houston, they could have gone anywhere they wanted to, a foreign school if they'd chosen.
Jack Roach, Roach Motor Company in Houston, just one after another.
One of Umbel Oil's top executives.
was a classmate of mine in the Calvary.
And you had boys who had to wait tables.
You had the full spectrum.
But when you put that uniform on, and you were together, and you were in class, and you walked together, and you ate together, the only class distinction was freshman, sophomore, junior, and senior.
There was less and less as you advanced.
There was less and less juniors and seniors
They didn't have, you know, you're there.
Once you're a junior, you're above it all.
Where did an Aggie locate it?
You told me about Mabel.
In fact, where did Aggies locate dates?
Well, if you were lucky, I was.
I had some Brian friends.
And so I would have, now we would have girls, after my sophomore and junior year, we'd have girls up in Houston for dances.
We'd put them up.
We had the Aggieland Inn in those days, which was a nice place.
You had to do a lot of prior planning to get a room for your day.
Sometimes we had to double up, but we'd take care of it.
And I think one of the big, I think it's either the junior prom or the senior ring dance, one of them.
I think we made a dormitory.
I think we did, available for the ladies and mothers.
I think we did.
Tell me about those events.
Where were they held?
Sabisa Hall.
All of the events, even though we, Duncan, all of those matters took place in Sabisa.
Best dances, in those days we'd get the best bands in the country.
Russ Morgan, Jimmy Darcy, just one after another would come.
And I had a weak feeling, didn't you?
And the girls loved it.
I don't care if they were from Austin, Fort Worth of Dallas, would come to an A&M dance in Sabisa Hall because the fellas would just cut in.
I mean, they were going to get rushed off their feet.
And after all, that's a very flattering circumstance for a lady.
So they may have, when they got back to Austin, talked a little deeper.
They had a good time here.
I met my wife.
I met Martha.
She was at the University of Texas.
Tell me about that.
Martha was at the University of Texas, and she was a member of their glee club.
They came over to have a concert, you might say, and they had an old guy, the old one.
I think, what did they call that?
The old guy at home.
And she said, not too many showed up, but they had a nice dinner.
I was going with Alice Sue Roman,
for Bryan.
She was president of Martha's sorority and Martha was her little sister.
So she asked her to stay with her that weekend.
And I had a date with Alice Sue at the dance.
And I met Martha and I found an intermission.
I worked so I had her at intermission.
She was with some other Aggie women.
Now this was what year for you?
This was my
She was a sophomore.
She was two years old.
So, your life was getting serious in more ways than one?
Well, strangely enough, we didn't see each other again until a chance meeting in a taxi.
I'd already gone then to flying.
I had my wings and I was getting ready to go overseas.
And most days you shared taxis.
You never had one by yourself.
And we made a stop.
I was going to
pick up a date, as a matter of fact, which was two doors down from her sorority house.
And she got in and it was true.
And I said, you know, I know you.
And she said, I think I know you too.
And I got off at her sorority house.
She robbed me of my gum, my cigarettes, everything that I had, you know, because they couldn't get them in those days.
And we, then we picked up.
At that point on that, it was serious.
Oh yeah, within two months I'd given her a ring.
Right now, when young ladies came, you said they stayed at the Aggieland Inn and other places.
And how much drinking and any other wild behavior was there in an Aggie dance?
There just wasn't any.
I mean, really, I didn't drink in those days.
I came from a family that didn't drink.
Dad, or maybe he'd take us to...
used to club and he'd have a scotch and soda.
One drink.
Just be social, that's all.
My mother, I don't know, I don't think she drank anyway.
So I didn't really know about it and you couldn't get booze.
I didn't have it.
You had to go all the way to the Brazos River to get it and see if it was dry.
I was going to ask, was hard liquors going when you were?
Beer.
No, but the place down the... Oh yeah, oh yeah, Hard Liquors.
Oh yeah, absolutely.
Now what did he say?
The best place for me was Franklin's.
Franklin's out on... Oh, that was a great place.
Where was that?
Well, it's on the highway.
Let's see.
It was right in front of the vet school.
What was that event?
Oh, you're talking about Whiskey Bridge.
Go on a snook.
Oh yeah, but that's where the booze was, on the other side of the bracket.
But no, this was an easy place.
Franklin's had a... What you could do...
You could bring your booze in and they'd fix mixes.
You could do that, but you couldn't buy any whiskey.
They just wouldn't sell it.
They tolerated it.
You could drink it once you got it.
But none of us drank it.
We wouldn't really.
I don't ever remember anyone in my outfit really drinking.
We'd go to Austin.
In those days, all you could get was rum.
You'd kind of go to Cuba Leavers, I remember that.
And maybe you'd party and you'd have some drinks,
We never drank in the dormitory.
In fact, we weren't supposed to, and we didn't.
We did not break that rule.
Now, I'm gonna ask this one with a straight face.
What did you and your buddies know about drugs?
Absolutely nothing.
Didn't even know the words.
Didn't even know what it... Well, you know, it's like it's one of these very popular songs.
Who was it?
One of the great composers up there in the East.
And one of the great songs is...
something about, it wasn't cocaine, what was it?
Something like that.
And it didn't mean anything to anyone.
I mean, who?
Didn't know?
Oh yeah, this was back in the thirties, didn't mean anything.
How much interaction did you as a student have with either the College Station community or the Bryan community?
Well, your interaction actually was a function strictly of
If you went to one of the churches in Bryan, obviously you'd meet some of the people that way and you'd have to almost do that.
I don't know of any other way to do it except do friends, but I had friends and I was able to meet none of the family.
Did you go downtown Bryan often to buy anything?
No, no never.